
// - - - - - Home Page - - - - - \\

A CALL FOR INCLUSIVE LEADERSHIP

TalentoTotal is an international non-profit organization that aims to make the leadership 
landscape in Latin America more competitive and inclusive by accelerating the careers of 
high-achieving Afro-descendant and Indigenous (ADI) women and men from underrepresented communities.  
The mission of TalentoTotal is achieved through coaching, professional development, and leadership 
training to increase the number of diverse leaders in corporations, law firms, entrepreneurial ventures, 
non-profit and multinational organizations in Latin America.

We are a data-driven and values-based organization that collectively leverages our 
experiences and presence across the Americas to harness the support, relationships, 
and resources required to build a thriving leadership pipeline for organizations 
and communities worldwide.  At TalentoTotal, we are committed to instilling the values 
that create an ecosystem of giving back, leading by example, and empowering our communities.

TotalMBA Prep

MBA Programs are a major source of leadership talent for leading companies and organizations.  
Historically, Afro-Descendant and Indigenous (ADI) young professionals have had limited access 
to graduate education opportunities within Latin America, and less so in the United States and Europe.  
TalentoTotal, empowered by an exceptional cadre of coaches and mentors, professionally develops 
and trains Afro-Descendant and Indigenous (ADI) candidates through our TotalMBA Prep Program to 
increase the number of diverse leaders in corporations, entrepreneurial ventures, non-profit and 
multinational organizations.

TotalLAW Prep

Afro-Brazilians represent less than 1% of lawyers in Brazil’s nine largest law firms and are 
absent in leadership roles.  The Cyrus R. Vance Center for International Justice is partnering with 
TalentoTotal in the TotalLAW Prep Program, a collaborative effort engaging law firms, bar associations, 
law schools, and pro bono clearinghouses to increase diversity and inclusion in the legal 
profession across the Americas.  The TotalLAW Prep Program is designed to create a broad and ethnically 
diverse leadership pipeline of highly talented Afro-Descendant and Indigenous (ADI) lawyers.

// - - - - - About Us - - - - - \\

TalentoTotal

Gem McCreary and Doug Nagy, classmates from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, 
reconnected in 2016 when they began working in Colombia. Both were at leading multinational companies, 
Citi and McKinsey & Company, respectively, and noticed one key similarity within their respective industries: 
the lack of diversity, specifically Afro-descendant and Indigenous (ADI) employees. In discussions with their 
coworkers and peers, they realized the ADI community had limited access to higher education 
(especially abroad) and job opportunities in competitive industries (i.e. finance, consulting, tech). 
Gem also witnessed similar circumstances during his time working in banking/finance in Brazil, where there 
was minimal ADI representation.

Influenced by their experiences growing up in Afro-American and Latino communities, these Booth 
alumni understood the value of support networks and Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) programs. Gem was 
supported by one of the most successful D&I development programs in the United States (US), 
Management Leadership for Tomorrow (MLT). MLT provided the path for his successful entry into 
several top tier MBA programs and a career in global banking/finance. While at Chicago Booth, 
Gem also noticed that there were virtually no International Afro-Latino or Indigenous MBA students 
across the multitude of US graduate school programs.

Knowing that MBA Programs are a major source of talent for multinationals and leading national companies, 
Gem and Doug believed that developing an MBA talent pipeline for ADI MBA candidates could change the 
diversity and leadership landscape in Brazil and Colombia. In 2017, they came up with the concept for 
TalentoTotal and set out to raise the number of international ADI MBA candidates and accelerate the 
careers of high-achieving women and men from underrepresented communities. TalentoTotal, with a cadre 
of exceptional coaches and mentors, professionally develops and trains ADI candidates to increase the 
number of diverse leaders in businesses and organizations across Latin America.

// - - - - - Team Profiles - - - - - \\

Douglas Nagy - Co-Founder
Douglas is an American strategy consultant and 
co-founder of McKinsey & Company’s office in Medellín, Colombia. 
He earned an MBA from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business, 
worked on President Obama's 2008 and 2012 campaigns, 
and served as the youngest Main Street manager in America, building an 
NGO at age 22 to revitalize the Mexican-American community where he grew up in Ohio. 
Doug speaks English and Spanish.


Diby Escobar – Marketing Director
Diby is an Afro-Colombian marketing and communications 
professional and is a native of Medellín, Colombia. She completed her 
undergraduate degree as an Audiovisual Communicator in 2013 and earned 
her Master's Degree in Marketing Management in 2016 from Pontificia Universidad 
Javeriana in Bogotá, Colombia. Diby has worked in various roles for a 
number of Colombian companies as a Marketing Manager and also collaborates 
with local Afro-Colombian organizations to empower underrepresented communities. 
She speaks fluent English and Spanish.


Jeff Watkins - Director of Business Development (North America) and Media Production
Jeff is a New York-based Afro-Latino (Chile/Venezuela) business leader and entrepreneur. 
A graduate of the United States Naval Academy, former naval officer, then Wall Street rising star, 
Jeff Watkins’ path into media production has been dynamic. Named one of Merrill Lynch’s most promising 
young talents with some of the most talented entertainment artists in the world as clients, 
he resigned to create, develop, and produce the series “My Hero,” with production partner and 
star actress Zoe Saldana. The show was later sold to AOL as one of the biggest digital series 
buys in history at the time.


Nicolás Rojas - Chief Technology Officer
Nicolás is a Colombian web developer, who has been developing applications for 
over six years and has had over a million product downloads. He also develops 
free courses for people to learn coding, reaching students in 50+ countries. Nicolás 
graduated as an Industrial Engineer from La Universidad de los Andes, Colombia’s #1 ranked university. 
He speaks English and Spanish.